=head1 BUDGETING

How to budget with ICHB: transactions and assignments

=head2 Transactions

ICHB is entirely done with transactions. Depending on the circumstances, the
transaction has different effects. The terms here are explained later.

=head3 User account -> Payee account

You bought something. This transaction will also have a kitty associated with
it. This decrements the amount of money in the kitty by the same amount.

=head3 Payee account -> User account

You got paid! Or someone gave you money. Either way, the target account now has
more money in it. You should assign this money to a kitty ASAP. You might do
this at the same time, by assigning this transaction to a kitty, for example if
someone paid you back for something.

=head3 User account -> User account

Move money, e.g. from bank account to cash. This doesn't affect distribution of
money in kitties.

=head3 Nothing -> User account

Represents interest, or some other amalgamation of money in this account.

=head2 Assignments

Assignments are a bit like transactions but they operate on Kitties instead of
Accounts. There are no third-party Kitties; these are just names for things you
want to pay for.

=head3 Nothing -> Kitty

Assigns money to the kitty, reducing the amount of money not assigned to any
kitties. Or, removes it, if the amount is negative.

=head3 Kitty -> Kitty

Reduces one kitty and increases the other. This is helpful so you can see where
you've had to compromise.

=head2 Accounts

There are two types of accounts: yours, (User) and other people's (Payee).  You
can have as many of either as you want - at the very simplest you should just
have the one account that represents the amount of money you have.

You should probably have one User account for each account that you spend money
out of. This helps you reconcile, which you should do frequently.
Reconciliation is simply the act of checking your bank account and budget have
the same available balance.

Payee accounts, there will be many. These are other people. Shops etc. Make as
many as you want. When you spend money, you create a transaction between one of
your accounts and someone else's.

There is a special type of account called Petty Cash. A petty cash account does
not detract from a kitty's budget when you spend money from it. It also does
not formally keep track of how much money is in it. This allows you to keep
track of when you spend petty cash, without actually affecting the budget.

The petty cash account does affect the budget in one respect: you can transfer
money into it. This will reduce the money in the account you transferred it out
of, at which point you will be required to select a kitty. The total amount in
all your kitties should always equal the total amount in your accounts.

A cash account works like a normal account. It is common to move money from
cash to petty cash, because you would maybe have some change left over; at
which point you would have to decide which kitty loses the capital.

=head2 Kitties

The idea is that you put all your available money into kitties. Then you take
them out of the kitties when you spend it!

Kitties can be as vague or specific as you like. You may have one for
groceries, or one for pineapples. You might have one for furniture, or one for
each chair you intend to buy.

To put money into a kitty you create an assignment; this is either from the
pool of unassigned money, or from one kitty to another.

To remove money from a kitty, you can either assign it to another kitty, or
select it as the category when you spend money.
